https://github.com/FrigidSec/Documents---
layout: post
title: "Make Volatility your YARA"
author: Smit Sawant
subtitle: "Get yourself acquainted with the basics of YARASCAN"
date: 2020-09-05 04:23:13 
background: '/img/posts/def.jpg'
---

### What's YARA?


- **YARA** is the name of a tool primarily used in malware research and detection. It provides a **rule**-based approach to create descriptions of malware families based on textual or binary patterns. It's been called the pattern-matching **Swiss Army knife for security researchers** .
- I know the above definition is somewhat difficult to understand... don't worry I will simplify it for you. I hope you are familiar with the [strings utility](https://www.howtoforge.com/linux-strings-command/) and [grep utility](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/grep-command-linux-unix-examples) of **Linux**. So **YARASCAN** can be considered as a combination of these utilities to find the required results but efficiently and with vast applications. I guess now I gave you somewhat a clear picture of **YARASCAN**.
- **Volatility** a well known digital forensics tool has an inbuilt **yarascan** plugin to make our life easier! In this blog we are going to focus more on **yarascan** plugin of volatility, so if you wanna brush up your volatility basics or want to know more about volatility commands you can read it over [here](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/volatility.1.html)

### Yarascan basic commands 

- Syntax of \*yarascan

```bash
volatility -f \<disk image> yarascan -Y "rules/strings"
```
> This is the basic syntax for using yarascan, the syntax will be further modified as per our requirements.
   
- Let's take up an example now! Consider a scenario where you need to find that which sites did the user visited before the disk image was taken. In this case **yarascan**    plugin comes in handy!
 I don't have a particular disk image now to explain with some pictures..but don't worry at last I will provide you with a link to one of my writeups for CTF in which I have used **yarascan** for the same scenario.
 

 **Assumption: Let the process id of google chrome applications used be 1912,2003,3123,1282.**( This you can find out with `pslist` plugin)
 

 So now we know every website will start with `HTTP or HTTPS` for sure! So in this case, `HTTP or HTTPS` will be the `rules/strings`
 for our `yarascan` plugin!
 
 **How to use this rule with yarascan to solve the given case?** Don't scratch your **brain** it's pretty straight forward.

``` 
volatility -f \<disk image> --profile=\<suggested profile for disk image> yarascan -Y "http" -p 1912,2003,3123,1282
```

 **Smash ENTER and BOOM!** you will get a list of all the websites visited by the user.
 
> NOTE: In the rule we have just used "HTTP" because it a substring for "https" so you will get both the HTTP and https websites
 
3. Let's take one more basic example to summarize basic `yarascan`. What if we want to find a word document that contained some known virus signatures? Again `yararule` to the rescue!!

```
volatility -f \<disk image> --profile=\<suggested profile for disk image> yarascan -Y ".doc" --yara-file=virussignatures.yar
```

In this scenario, the `Y` flag along with the `rule: .doc` will find all the word documents present in the disk image! Now you may have some questions cooking in your mind that why are we using another flag `--yara-file`? As we know that the word document contains some known virus signatures, so we can compile a file with all the known virus signature into `.yar` file which will make the process easier as it will filter out the word documents that don't have any virus in it!!

As I promised you.. here is the [link](https://github.com/FrigidSec/CTFWriteups/tree/master/FwordCTF/Forensics/Memory2) for the writeup for the CTF challenge which I solved using `yarascan`


I hope that I was able to give you a basic idea of yarascan
See you in the next article!! Until then be safe from viruses..both from COVID-19 and computer viruses :)

---

> This article is written by [Smit Sawant]() and Peer Reviewed by [Saket Upadhyay](). To check profile of every writer of FrigidSec-Blog please visit [HERE](https://github.com/FrigidSec/blog/tree/master/Writers)
